#summary Functionality description of XARIAS embeded computer.

*Other pages:* [AboutXARIAS], [Functionality], [Hardware], [SourceCode], [Author]

= XARIAS functionality =

XARIAS has wide range of functional capabilities.

== Buttons description ==

[http://lh6.ggpht.com/xtensa/SGq1clxZA9I/AAAAAAAABkY/0ff83ERZTSw/p1150486.jpg?imgmax=400]

|| *Button* || *Name* || *Description* ||
|| SPD      || Speed  || Turns to speed mode. ||
|| FL       || Fuel   || Turns to fuel mode. ||
|| TRP      || Trip   || Turns to trip mode. ||
|| RPM      || RPM    || Turns to RPM mode. ||
|| FN       || Function || Not defined yet. ||
|| AC       || Air Conditioner || Turns ON or OFF Air Conditioner. If held for more than 3 seconds, turn between manual and automatic AC mode. ||
|| ESC      || Escape || Acts as Escape button on computer keyboard. ||
|| LEFT     || Left   || Navigate left. ||
|| RIGHT    || Right  || Navigate right. || 
|| UP       || Up     || Navigate up. If in one of the main modes^*^ and AC is set to AUTO, that increases AC temperature. ||
|| DOWN     || Down   ||  Navigate down. If in one of the main modes^*^ and AC is set to AUTO, that decreases AC temperature. ||
||OK        || OK     || In main modes^*^ enters main menu. In all other situation acts like Enter button on computer keyboard. ||

^*^ main mode is one of the following modes: SPEED, FUEL, TRIP, RPM.

== SPEED mode ==

[http://lh4.ggpht.com/xtensa/SGq1A6jKZiI/AAAAAAAABiw/nMKr4-hFRd8/p1150585.jpg?imgmax=400]

In speed mode the main information is momentary speed which is displayed with the greatest font. You can see also speed in meters per second above. Passed distance is displayed below. Average speed is displayed in bottom-left corner. All values (except speed in meters per second) are displayed in units selected in "Trip Settings" menu. 

== FUEL mode ==

[http://lh6.ggpht.com/xtensa/SGq0_LU7qjI/AAAAAAAABio/jFEKWEAuWvc/p1150583.jpg?imgmax=400]

In fuel mode the main information, which is momentary fuel consumption per 100 units (km or mi), is displayed with the greatest font. You can find fuel consumption per one hour above. Average fuel consumption is displayed in bottom-left corner.

== TRIP mode ==

[http://lh5.ggpht.com/xtensa/SGq1S1izk7I/AAAAAAAABj4/ee2xy_SS1Sk/p1150606.jpg?imgmax=400]

In trip mode you can find all totals for your trip. Here is total passed distance, total trip time (all stops with engine running are also included), total fuel consumed and total fuel cost. All units can be changed in "Trip settings" menu.

== RPM mode ==

[http://lh4.ggpht.com/xtensa/SGq1EcgY68I/AAAAAAAABjA/zfmAqpIuo_M/p1150590.jpg?imgmax=400]

In RPM mode you can see current engine RPM, passed distance and average speed.

== AC control ==

On all images above you can see that right side of the display is reserved for AC data information. In all modes you can see Outside and Inside temperatures. AC temperature is displayed in top-right corner. "A:20^C" means that AC is set to AUTO mode. If AC is set to Manual mode you will see word "Manual" here instead. To turn ON or OFF AC press AC button for less than 1 second. If you hold AC button for more than 3 seconds AC mode will be switched. In all main modes (when AC info is displayed) you can adjust AC temperature by pressing UP or DOWN buttons. The minimum temperature is 5C and the maximum is 35C.

== Main menu == 

[http://lh3.ggpht.com/xtensa/SGq0nTOrPNI/AAAAAAAABhc/jPjmJzoBrvo/p1150548.jpg?imgmax=400]

|| *Menu position* || *Description* ||
|| Trip settings || You can adjust all units here and reset trip data ||
|| Date/Time settings || Set date and time here ||
|| Screen adjustment || Adjust display parameters here ||
|| !AirCon settings || Change temperature scale and view sensor information here ||
|| Service mode || Useful for developers only. Probably will be removed in final version ||

== Trip settings ==

[http://lh6.ggpht.com/xtensa/SGq1GRy-U1I/AAAAAAAABjI/cdrXoqUXIJs/p1150592.jpg?imgmax=400]

Adjust fuel cost here, set currency, or change distance and fuel units. 

The cost is given for one selected fuel unit.

You can set any currency you want with 3 letters as it has no impact on overall functionality. It is used only for displaying.

You can choose distance units between kilometers and miles, and fuel units between litters and gallons.

You can also reset trip data from here. If you do so, trip time, total fuel and passed distnace will be set to 0.

== Date & Time settings ==

[http://lh5.ggpht.com/xtensa/SGq1K6Gr6NI/AAAAAAAABjY/iXL9surcg9E/p1150595.jpg?imgmax=400]

Set time here.

== Screen adjustment ==

[http://lh3.ggpht.com/xtensa/SGq1My7JQmI/AAAAAAAABjg/wpMOXoLon-s/p1150599.jpg?imgmax=400]

Smoothly adjust screen settings here.

== !AirCon settings ==

[http://lh6.ggpht.com/xtensa/SGq1OpZ1xFI/AAAAAAAABjo/90R9dGWpHIk/p1150600.jpg?imgmax=400]

Choose between Celsius and Fahrenheit scale here. You can also see current temperature on each sensor here.

== Service mode ==

Service mode is useful for developers only. In final version it will be probably removed from the main menu. 