#summary Detailed HOWTO if you want to intstall XARIAS in your car.

= Assembling XARIAS board =

Making and assembling PCB is not concern of this Wiki. Use pcb tool 
of gEDA suite to print PCB layout. Then go ahead with the steps 
described in this nice manual: [http://robotics.ee.calpoly.edu/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=articles:homemade_pcbs].
The only difference is that XARIAS uses two-sided PCB. To syncronise
left and right side of the PCB you can do the following: before
ironing the design to the copper, make 4 holes in different corners
of the pcb. Holes should be "real" used for fitting the details 
during assembling. Then cut off printed designs to be the same size as the
board is. Make holes in the same places in the paper and sew all three layers 
alltogether (printed side to copper of course). Then proceed as said in
manual above.


== Important notes ==

Please keep in mind that !I2C bus is very sensitive to distorsions. Make sure that 
the capacitance of the wires connecting two boards is as small as possible. I
suggest to use wires not longer than 15cm and also they should be shielded.

Another important thing is that !DS1803 should be 10kOhm. It mean you need 
!DS1803-010 (other options are !DS1803-050 and !DS1803-100 which are wrong).
It was not mentioned in schematics by mistake, but it will be corrected in the 
future release.

= Compilling and installing firmware =

XARIAS was originally developped under Linux. 
It should be possible to compile XARIAS  firmware in Windows environment 
using WinAVR and installing with AvrDude but it was never tested. 
Any windows-user's feedback are welcome.

== Prerequisists ==

Before you will start compiling the firmware please make sure 
that you have all prerequsits installed. You will need the 
following programs and libraries:
 * *avr-libc* - AVR C runtime library, a Free Software project whose goal is to provide a high quality C library for use with GCC on Atmel AVR microcontrollers.
 * *avr-binutils* - a collection of binary tools for AVR !MCUs.
 * *avr-gcc* - C compilier for AVR !MCUs.
 * *make* - a tool which controls the generation of executables and other non-source files of a program from the program's source files. 
 * *avrdude* - a software for programming Atmel AVR Microcontrollers.

== Compiling and programming ==

Use 'make' command to compile firmware. If typed without input parameters
it will display possible targets.
 * make X        - build firmware for X xarias board
 * make inst_X   - build and install firmware for X board
 * make fuses_X  - write fuse bits

Possible boards are b01 for v0.1 version of XARIAS, and  b02 and ac
for v0.2 version of project. 

Please take into account that if you do not program the fuses correctly the system will not work. 
I receive a lot of emails with problems. Most of them was resolved by correctly programed fusebits. 

= Installing XARIAS in the Car =

To install XARIAS in your car you need to find the following signals:

to be written...

